# A new index reveals worsening welfare structure in China
*Xi Ji, Xianling Long, Guowei Wu, Pinyi Su, Xuanyuan Luo, and Robert Costanza*

This repository contains data and code that can be used to reproduce the results found in the manuscript "A new index reveals declining welfare diversity in China".

**Abstract:** Most previous efforts to measure human welfare aggregate a series of welfare-related dimensions, including economic, social, and environmental welfare. However, these efforts focus only on the magnitude of welfare. This paper highlights the significance of the “diversity” of welfare sources in estimating human welfare, and that welfare diversity depicts welfare structure. We propose a new welfare index, Sustainable Welfare (SW), that integrates the Welfare Diversity (WD) and Welfare Magnitude (WM). The new index implies that the increment in one positive welfare component enhances the SW but its marginal benefit decreases, and that the increment in one negative welfare component diminishes the SW and its marginal damage increases. This framework can be applied to most welfare indices. We apply the framework to the Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI) for China’s 31 provinces from 1985 to 2018, and 286 prefecture-level cities from 2006 to 2018. When applied to GPI, SW corresponds to Sustainable GPI (SGPI) that is a new index based on GPI but incorporating WD information. China’s WD of positive welfare sources has declined during the past 30 years, and as a result, there was an increasing decoupling trend between GPI and SGPI. The decoupling trend can be explained by the heterogenous effects of scale (measured by population density) and structure (measured by industrial structure) factors. The marginal social welfare from the expansion of population scale or the growth of a sector is diminishing. Promoting an underdeveloped sector can enhance human welfare, but over-reliance on a dominant sector may make the economy vulnerable. The use of Welfare Diversity promotes the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) because of their common focus on balanced development. The framework can also guide China and the world to improve structure when approaching biophysical “planetary boundaries”. 


### Contact
Xi Ji, Peking University. E-mail address: jixi@pku.edu.cn
